{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}{\f1 Consolas;}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440
\fs24
\b Capacity Dashboard Deployment Guide\b0\par
\i Word-friendly operator guide for Bicep and Terraform deployments with existing-resource reuse and management-group-first RBAC\i0\par
\par
This guide is written for someone who is comfortable following a checklist, even if they do not work with Azure deployments every day. It explains the safest order to do the work:\par
\par
1. Install the tools and collect the required values.\par
2. Deploy the Azure infrastructure and application.\par
3. Run the database step second, after the web app exists.\par
4. Verify sign-in, data access, and exports.\par
\par
\b 1. What This Deployment Creates\b0\par
\par
Both the Bicep and Terraform paths create the same main Azure resources by default:\par
\par
- Web App for the dashboard\par
- Function App for the worker\par
- Storage account for the worker\par
- Azure SQL Server and Azure SQL Database\par
- Key Vault\par
- Virtual network, private endpoints, and DNS links\par
- Application Insights and Log Analytics\par
- Managed identities and the main RBAC assignments\par
\par
Both paths can also attach to existing customer-managed shared services instead of creating duplicates for:\par
\par
- Azure SQL Server and optionally the Azure SQL Database\par
- Azure Key Vault\par
- Worker host Storage Account\par
\par
\b 2. Safest Deployment Order\b0\par
\par
Use this order unless your customer has a very specific runbook:\par
\par
1. Prepare access and collect values.\par
2. Deploy infrastructure and application.\par
3. Run the database initialization step.\par
4. Test sign-in and the main dashboard pages.\par
\par
Do not try to start with the database scripts unless the web app and identities already exist. The current deployment flow expects the application and identities to be created first.\par
\par
\b 3. Before You Start\b0\par
\par
You will need these items before either deployment method:\par
\par
- An Azure subscription where you can create resources\par
- Azure permissions: Contributor and User Access Administrator on the target scope\par
- An Entra user or group that will be the Azure SQL Entra admin\par
- The Azure subscription ID\par
- A resource group name to use\par
- An environment name such as dev or test\par
- A workload suffix such as demo001\par
- An ingest API key\par
- A session secret\par
- Optional worker shared secret\par
- Optional Entra app registration values if sign-in should be enabled\par
- Preferred management group names if the tenant uses management groups\par
- Optional explicit subscription lists for fallback RBAC when management groups are not used\par
\par
\b 4. Install The Required Tools\b0\par
\par
Install these tools on the machine that will run the deployment:\par
\par
- Azure CLI\par
- PowerShell 7\par
- For Bicep: Azure CLI with Bicep support\par
- For Terraform: Terraform 1.5.x, specifically 1.5.0 or newer and lower than 1.6.0\par
- For manual database initialization: sqlcmd\par
\par
Recommended checks:\par
\par
- Open PowerShell and run \f1 az --version\f0\par
- Run \f1 pwsh --version\f0\par
- If using Terraform, run \f1 terraform version\f0\par
- If using manual SQL initialization, run \f1 sqlcmd -?\f0\par
\par
\b 5. Decide Which Path To Use\b0\par
\par
\b Use Bicep when:\b0\par
- You want the Azure-native path\par
- You want the simplest script-driven operator flow\par
- You do not need Terraform state management\par
\par
\b Use Terraform when:\b0\par
- The customer standard is Terraform\par
- You want Terraform state and plan/apply workflow\par
- You may need to import an existing resource group before first apply\par
\par
\b 6. Gather The Values To Fill In\b0\par
\par
Replace the placeholders in the commands later in this document with your own values:\par
\par
- \f1 <subscription-id>\f0\par
- \f1 <resource-group-name>\f0\par
- \f1 <environment>\f0 such as \f1 dev\f0 or \f1 test\f0\par
- \f1 <workload-suffix>\f0 such as \f1 demo001\f0\par
- \f1 <entra-upn>\f0 for the Azure SQL Entra admin login\par
- \f1 <entra-object-id>\f0 for the Azure SQL Entra admin object ID\par
- \f1 <tenant-id>\f0 if dashboard sign-in is enabled\par
- \f1 <client-id>\f0 if dashboard sign-in is enabled\par
- \f1 <client-secret>\f0 if dashboard sign-in is enabled\par
- \f1 <admin-group-object-id>\f0 if admin access is group-gated\par
- \f1 <management-group-name>\f0 if management-group-based RBAC will be used\par
\par
\b 6A. What Those Secrets Actually Are\b0\par
\par
The guide mentions three application secrets. These are not Azure resources you need to discover in the portal. They are values you create and pass into the deployment.\par
\par
\b Ingest API key\b0\par
- This is a shared secret used to protect the dashboard's internal ingestion and internal database/bootstrap endpoints.\par
- The server checks it through the \f1 INGEST_API_KEY\f0 app setting.\par
- You choose this value yourself. It should be a long random string.\par
- Think of it as an internal service password, not as an Azure-generated key.\par
\par
\b Session secret\b0\par
- This is the secret used by the web app's session cookie middleware.\par
- The server reads it from \f1 SESSION_SECRET\f0.\par
- You choose this value yourself. It should also be a long random string.\par
- If sign-in is enabled, this value is important because it protects the signed session cookie state.\par
- The helper script \f1 scripts/New-EntraApp.ps1\f0 already prints an example generated \f1 SESSION_SECRET\f0 for local setup.\par
\par
\b Optional worker shared secret\b0\par
- This is a shared secret between the web app and the worker app.\par
- The web app receives it as \f1 CAPACITY_WORKER_SHARED_SECRET\f0 and the worker app receives it as \f1 WORKER_SHARED_SECRET\f0.\par
- You only need this when you are using the shared-secret web-to-worker contract.\par
- You create this value yourself the same way: make it a long random string and pass the same value to both sides through deployment.\par
- It does not come from Azure Key Vault automatically and it is not auto-generated by the deployment template.\par
\par
\b Simple rule:\b0\par
- If you are doing a normal deployment, generate these values yourself and store them securely.\par
- If you are redeploying an existing environment, reuse the same values from that environment unless you intentionally want to rotate them.\par
\par
\b Easy way to generate random values in PowerShell\b0\par
\par
\f1 [Convert]::ToBase64String([System.Security.Cryptography.RandomNumberGenerator]::GetBytes(32))\f0\par
\par
Use one generated value for \f1 INGEST_API_KEY\f0, a different one for \f1 SESSION_SECRET\f0, and optionally a third one for \f1 WORKER_SHARED_SECRET\f0. Do not reuse the same string for all three.\par
\par
\b 7. Existing Resource Reuse and RBAC Strategy\b0\par
\par
This is the most important section for non-standard customer environments.\par
\par
\b Supported directly by the current deployment inputs:\b0\par
- Existing resource group with Terraform, as long as you import it before first apply\par
- Different resource group region with Terraform, using \f1 resource_group_location\f0\par
- Key Vault naming conflict with Terraform, using \f1 key_vault_name_override\f0\par
- Reusing an existing Azure SQL server with \f1 ExistingSqlServerName\f0 or \f1 existing_sql_server_name\f0\par
- Reusing an existing Azure SQL database with \f1 ExistingSqlDatabaseName\f0 or \f1 existing_sql_database_name\f0\par
- Reusing an existing Key Vault with \f1 ExistingKeyVaultName\f0 or \f1 existing_key_vault_name\f0\par
- Reusing an existing worker storage account with \f1 ExistingWorkerStorageAccountName\f0 or \f1 existing_worker_storage_account_name\f0\par
- Manual database initialization against customer-provided SQL names after the app is deployed\par
\par
\b Important behavior when reusing shared services:\b0\par
- Existing resource names are the switch. If you provide the existing resource name, deployment moves that dependency into reuse mode.\par
- \f1 ExistingSqlDatabaseName\f0 requires \f1 ExistingSqlServerName\f0 because the reused database must hang off a reused server.\par
- When you reuse an existing SQL server or Key Vault, the templates do not create a new private endpoint or private DNS path for that dependency. They assume the customer-managed private connectivity path already exists.\par
- If the reused dependency lives in a different resource group, use the matching resource-group override input.\par
\par
\b Preferred RBAC approach for larger estates:\b0\par
1. Use management-group inputs first so access inherits to descendant subscriptions.\par
2. Use explicit subscription lists only as the fallback path for smaller estates or tightly curated environments.\par
3. Set \f1 quota_management_group_id\f0 or \f1 -QuotaManagementGroupId\f0 when Quota Workbench should default to a known management group or when tenant-wide management-group enumeration is restricted.\par
\par
The key roles that can be assigned through deployment are:\par
\par
- Web App identity: \f1 Reader\f0 for subscription discovery and read-only ARM queries\par
- Web App identity: \f1 GroupQuota Request Operator\f0 for quota apply and movement workflows\par
- Worker identity: \f1 Compute Recommendations Role\f0 for capacity recommendation APIs\par
- Worker identity: \f1 Cost Management Reader\f0 for pricing and cost lookups\par
- Worker identity: \f1 Billing Reader\f0 for billing meter and offer data\par
\par
The safest current approach is:\par
\par
1. Deploy the application and supporting resources first.\par
2. Disable automatic database bootstrap if needed.\par
3. Run the manual database initialization command against the effective SQL server and database names.\par
4. Document any extra secret, DNS, firewall, or RBAC mapping needed for that customer.\par
\par
\b 8. Bicep Runbook\b0\par
\par
\b Recommended Bicep command:\b0\par
\par
\f1 .\scripts\deploy-infra.ps1 `\par
-ResourceGroupName "<resource-group-name>" `\par
-Environment <environment> `\par
-WorkloadSuffix "<workload-suffix>" `\par
-ParameterFile "./infra/bicep/main.bicepparam" `\par
-SqlEntraAdminLogin "<entra-upn>" `\par
-SqlEntraAdminObjectId "<entra-object-id>" `\par
-SubscriptionId "<subscription-id>"\f0\par
\par
\b Add these only when needed:\b0\par
- \f1 -QuotaManagementGroupId "<management-group-id>"\f0\par
- \f1 -WebReaderManagementGroupNames @("<management-group-name>")\f0\par
- \f1 -WebQuotaWriterManagementGroupNames @("<management-group-name>")\f0\par
- \f1 -WorkerRbacManagementGroupNames @("<management-group-name>")\f0\par
- \f1 -UseAllAccessibleManagementGroups\f0 if the operator should use every non-root management group they can see\par
- \f1 -AuthEnabled $true\f0 plus tenant, client, secret, and admin group values if sign-in should be enabled. This is already the deployment default now.\par
- \f1 -ExistingSqlServerName "<sql-server-name>"\f0 to reuse an existing SQL server\par
- \f1 -ExistingSqlDatabaseName "<sql-database-name>"\f0 to reuse an existing SQL database on that server\par
- \f1 -ExistingKeyVaultName "<key-vault-name>"\f0 to reuse an existing Key Vault\par
- \f1 -ExistingWorkerStorageAccountName "<storage-account-name>"\f0 to reuse an existing worker storage account\par
- \f1 -ApplyDatabaseBootstrap $false\f0 if the database must be initialized separately\par
\par
\b When to use test.bicepparam:\b0\par
Use \f1 ./infra/bicep/test.bicepparam\f0 when you are building a stable demo or test environment instead of a change-heavy dev environment.\par
\par
\b 9. Terraform Runbook\b0\par
\par
\b Step 1: Create a local tfvars file\b0\par
Copy \f1 infra/terraform/terraform.tfvars.example\f0 to \f1 infra/terraform/terraform.tfvars\f0 and fill in the real values.\par
\par
\b Step 2: If the resource group already exists, import it before first apply\b0\par
\par
\f1 terraform import -var-file="terraform.tfvars" azurerm_resource_group.rg "/subscriptions/<subscription-id>/resourceGroups/<resource-group-name>"\f0\par
\par
\b Step 3: Run Terraform from the wrapper script or directly\b0\par
\par
\f1 .\scripts\deploy-infra.ps1 `\par
-Provider Terraform `\par
-ResourceGroupName "<resource-group-name>" `\par
-Environment <environment> `\par
-WorkloadSuffix "<workload-suffix>" `\par
-SqlEntraAdminLogin "<entra-upn>" `\par
-SqlEntraAdminObjectId "<entra-object-id>" `\par
-SubscriptionId "<subscription-id>"\f0\par
\par
Or use raw Terraform:\par
\par
\f1 cd infra/terraform\par
terraform init\par
terraform apply -var-file="terraform.tfvars"\f0\par
\par
\b Helpful Terraform-specific extras:\b0\par
- \f1 resource_group_location\f0 if the existing resource group is in a different region\par
- \f1 key_vault_name_override\f0 if the default Key Vault name cannot be used\par
- \f1 manage_entra_web_redirect_uri = true\f0 if Terraform should add the generated callback URL to an existing Entra app registration\par
- \f1 existing_sql_server_name\f0, \f1 existing_sql_database_name\f0, \f1 existing_key_vault_name\f0, and \f1 existing_worker_storage_account_name\f0 to reuse customer-managed shared services\par
- \f1 web_reader_management_group_names\f0, \f1 web_quota_writer_management_group_names\f0, and \f1 worker_rbac_management_group_names\f0 for management-group-first RBAC\par
\par
\b 10. Database Step Second\b0\par
\par
The safest operator pattern is to do the database step after the deployment creates the app, identity, SQL server name, and database name.\par
\par
\b Default path:\b0\par
The deployment script attempts dashboard bootstrap through the deployed web app.\par
\par
\b Separate DBA or customer-managed path:\b0\par
Use \f1 -ApplyDatabaseBootstrap $false\f0 during deployment, then run the manual database command afterward.\par
\par
Standard example:\par
\par
\f1 .\scripts\initialize-database.ps1 -SqlServer "sql-capdash-<environment>-<workload-suffix>.database.windows.net" -SqlDatabase "sqldb-capdash-<environment>" -AppIdentityName "app-capdash-<environment>-<workload-suffix>"\f0\par
\par
If the customer pre-created SQL, substitute the actual server and database names.\par
\par
Run this from an approved network path when Azure SQL is private-only, such as:\par
\par
- An Azure VM with network access to the private endpoint\par
- A self-hosted runner inside the approved network\par
- An admin workstation that reaches Azure through the approved customer network path\par
\par
\b 11. When The Customer Already Has A Database\b0\par
\par
If the customer says, "We already have the SQL server and database," use this checklist:\par
\par
1. Confirm the real SQL server FQDN and database name.\par
2. Confirm who is the Azure SQL Entra admin.\par
3. Pass \f1 ExistingSqlServerName\f0 and optionally \f1 ExistingSqlDatabaseName\f0 during deployment.\par
4. Skip automatic database bootstrap if the customer wants a separate DBA step.\par
5. Run \f1 scripts/initialize-database.ps1\f0 with the customer SQL names if schema bootstrap still needs to be applied.\par
6. Confirm the app identity only keeps the intended runtime roles afterward.\par
\par
\b 12. When The Customer Already Has A Key Vault\b0\par
\par
The current templates now provide a direct reuse switch for an existing Key Vault.\par
\par
What is supported today:\par
\par
- If Terraform only needs a different vault name because the default name is blocked, use \f1 key_vault_name_override\f0.\par
- If the customer wants to reuse an existing Key Vault, use \f1 ExistingKeyVaultName\f0 or \f1 existing_key_vault_name\f0.\par
\par
What to still confirm when reusing a customer-owned Key Vault:\par
\par
1. Confirm the customer-managed private endpoint and DNS path already exists if the vault is private-only.\par
2. Confirm the web app and worker identities can receive \f1 Key Vault Secrets User\f0 on that vault.\par
3. Confirm the expected secrets live in that vault and use the expected names.\par
\par
\b 13. When The Customer Already Has A Storage Account\b0\par
\par
The current deployment can reuse a customer-owned worker storage account through \f1 ExistingWorkerStorageAccountName\f0 or \f1 existing_worker_storage_account_name\f0.\par
\par
What to still confirm:\par
\par
1. The worker managed identity can receive the required storage data-plane roles.\par
2. The storage account is appropriate for Azure Functions host storage.\par
3. The account lives in the expected resource group, or you pass the resource-group override input.\par
\par
\b 14. Basic Validation Checklist\b0\par
\par
After deployment and database initialization, check these items:\par
\par
- The web app is reachable in a browser\par
- The sign-in page works if auth is enabled\par
- The dashboard loads after sign-in\par
- The main grid loads data\par
- Exports work after sign-in\par
- The worker app is deployed\par
- The SQL database is initialized\par
- Key Vault references resolve\par
- Management-group or subscription RBAC is in place\par
- Quota Workbench can load its management-group default or fallback without a blank page\par
- Existing-resource reuse settings match the intended SQL, Key Vault, and worker storage dependencies\par
\par
\b 15. Simple Decision Guide\b0\par
\par
If the person following this guide wants the least surprising path, tell them to do this:\par
\par
1. Choose Bicep unless the customer requires Terraform.\par
2. Use the deployment script, not raw template commands.\par
3. Treat the database step as second, not first.\par
4. If the customer already owns SQL, Key Vault, or storage, use the existing-resource inputs and verify private connectivity and RBAC assumptions before deployment.\par
\par
\b 16. File References In This Repo\b0\par
\par
- Main deployment wrapper: \f1 scripts/deploy-infra.ps1\f0\par
- Manual database initialization: \f1 scripts/initialize-database.ps1\f0\par
- Web publish script: \f1 deploy-web-app.ps1\f0\par
- Bicep overview: \f1 infra/bicep/README.md\f0\par
- Terraform overview: \f1 infra/terraform/README.md\f0\par
- Shared infrastructure overview: \f1 infra/README.md\f0\par
\par
\b 17. Suggested Handoff Note For Customer Teams\b0\par
\par
If you need to hand this to a customer or internal operator, use this short message:\par
\par
"First deploy the application and Azure resources. Second, complete the database initialization. Prefer management-group-based RBAC for larger estates. If the customer wants to reuse an existing SQL server, Key Vault, or worker storage account, pass the existing-resource inputs up front and confirm the private connectivity and RBAC assumptions before deployment."\par
}