{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl
{\f0\fswiss Arial;}
{\f1\fmodern Consolas;}
}
\viewkind4\uc1
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs32 Capacity Dashboard SQL Patch Package Guide\b0\fs24\par
\pard\sa160\sl276\slmult1\f0 This document is intended for operators who already have a deployed Capacity Dashboard environment and need to update the Azure SQL database to the current schema.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Purpose\b0\par
\pard\sa160\sl276\slmult1\f0 Use this package when an existing environment is missing current AI model availability objects, PaaS availability objects, quota candidate columns, current views, or current dashboard settings.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Files In The Package\b0\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab \f1 sql\\test-repair-manual.sql\f0  - manual repair for drifted legacy databases.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab \f1 sql\\migrations\\20260427-add-paas-availability-and-ui-settings.sql\f0  - standard upgrade for already-deployed databases that are still on the normal migration path.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab \f1 scripts\\apply-database-upgrade.ps1\f0  - wrapper that runs either SQL file through \f1 sqlcmd\f0 .\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab \f1 sql\\schema-diff-inventory-chunks.sql\f0  - validation queries that can be run one section at a time.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab \f1 sql\\schema-diff-inventory.sql\f0  - same validation inventory in one larger script.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Which File Should I Run\b0\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Use \f1 sql\\migrations\\20260427-add-paas-availability-and-ui-settings.sql\f0  if the environment is a normal deployed system and you only need to add the newer schema objects and settings.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Use \f1 sql\\test-repair-manual.sql\f0  if the environment has drifted, if prior deployment history is unreliable, or if Query 4 in the inventory says \f1 dbo.SchemaMigrationHistory does not exist\f0 .\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab If Query 4 reports that \f1 dbo.SchemaMigrationHistory does not exist\f0  after the manual repair, that is acceptable. The manual repair intentionally does not invent migration history rows.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Recommended Execution Paths\b0\par
\pard\sa160\sl276\slmult1\f0 Simplest path for legacy repair:\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Open SSMS or the Azure Portal query window against the target Azure SQL database.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Run \f1 sql\\test-repair-manual.sql\f0  as an Entra SQL admin or equivalent database admin.\par

\pard\sa160\sl276\slmult1\f0 Wrapper path with \f1 sqlcmd\f0 :\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Use \f1 scripts\\apply-database-upgrade.ps1\f0  when you want a repeatable command-line path.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab If Azure CLI authentication is unreliable on the operator machine, prefer \f1 -AuthenticationMethod ActiveDirectoryInteractive\f0  or \f1 ActiveDirectoryDeviceCode\f0 .\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Prerequisites\b0\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab The operator must have permission to connect and execute DDL against the target Azure SQL database.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab If using the PowerShell wrapper, \f1 sqlcmd\f0  must be installed on the operator machine.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Know the target server name and database name before running anything.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Take the normal backup/change-control steps required by your environment.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Manual Repair Notes\b0\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab The manual repair script supports an optional \f1 __APP_IDENTITY_NAME__\f0  placeholder. Replace it only when you also need the script to create and grant the dashboard application's managed identity in the database.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab If you do not need identity setup, leave the placeholder unchanged and the script will skip that part.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab The manual repair is designed for repaired legacy systems, not for reconstructing missing migration history.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Example Commands\b0\par
\pard\sa160\sl276\slmult1\f0 Standard upgrade through the wrapper:\par
\pard\li360\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f1 pwsh .\\scripts\\apply-database-upgrade.ps1\line
-SqlServer 'your-server.database.windows.net'\line
-SqlDatabase 'your-database'\par

\pard\sa160\sl276\slmult1\f0 Legacy repair through the wrapper with managed identity setup:\par
\pard\li360\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f1 pwsh .\\scripts\\apply-database-upgrade.ps1\line
-SqlServer 'your-server.database.windows.net'\line
-SqlDatabase 'your-database'\line
-SqlFile 'sql/test-repair-manual.sql'\line
-AuthenticationMethod ActiveDirectoryInteractive\line
-AppIdentityName '<app-managed-identity-name>'\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Validation After The Update\b0\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0 Run \f1 sql\\schema-diff-inventory-chunks.sql\f0  or \f1 sql\\schema-diff-inventory.sql\f0  against the target database.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0 Confirm the following:\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Query 1 shows \f1 AIModelAvailability\f0 , \f1 PaaSAvailabilitySnapshot\f0 , and \f1 QuotaCandidateSnapshot\f0  with the expected current column counts.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Query 2 shows expected indexes, including the PaaS snapshot index and current quota-related indexes.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Query 3 shows the current views, including \f1 CapacityLatest\f0  and \f1 AIModelAvailabilityLatest\f0 .\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Query 5 shows expected dashboard settings such as \f1 ui.showSqlPreview\f0  and the AI/OpenAI settings.\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\f0\bullet\tab Query 4 may still report \f1 dbo.SchemaMigrationHistory does not exist\f0  for legacy repaired systems. That alone does not mean the repair failed.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Expected Outcome\b0\par
\pard\sa160\sl276\slmult1\f0 After the update, the target database should be functionally aligned for the current dashboard features even if it remains a repaired legacy environment without historical migration tracking.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Repo Reference\b0\par
\pard\sa160\sl276\slmult1\f0 This package is included in the Capacity Dashboard repository on \f1 main\f0 . Pull the latest version of the repo before sending these files to another operator.\par
}